\input texinfo   @c -*-texinfo-*-
@afourpaper
@setfilename ecmview.info
@documentlanguage en
@documentencoding UTF-8
@include version.texi
@settitle ecmview @value{VERSION}

@copying
This manual was last updated @value{UPDATED} for version
@value{VERSION} of ecmview.

Copyright @copyright{} 2012
Computer Graphics Group, University of Siegen, Germany.
Written by Martin Lambers (@email{martin.lambers@@uni-siegen.de}).
See @url{http://www.cg.informatik.uni-siegen.de/} for contact information.

@quotation
Copying and distribution of this file and the accompanying media files, with or
without modification, are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the
copyright notice and this notice are preserved. These files are offered as-is,
without any warranty.
@end quotation
@end copying

@dircategory Individual utilities
@direntry
* ecmview: (ecmview).         A tool to view ECM databases interactively.
@end direntry

@finalout
@titlepage
@title ecmview
@subtitle A tool to view ECM databases interactively.
@subtitle Version @value{VERSION}, @value{UPDATED}
@author Martin Lambers
@page
@vskip 0pt plus 1filll
@insertcopying
@end titlepage

@ifnothtml
@contents
@end ifnothtml

@ifnottex
@node Top
@top ecmview
@insertcopying
@end ifnottex

@ifhtml
Short Contents:
@end ifhtml
@menu
* Introduction::
* Accessing ECM Databases::
* Navigating::
* Processing and Combining Databases::
* Lighting::
* Lens::
* Saving and Loading Scene States::
* Render Options::
* Statistics::
@end menu
@ifhtml
@contents
@end ifhtml

@node Introduction
@chapter Introduction

ecmview is a tool to view ECM databases interactively.

ECM (Ellipsoidal Cube Map) databases store data for the surface of a planetary
object, for example photos and elevation models of Earth, Moon, or Mars.

For more information about ECM, see @url{http://ecm-planet.sourceforge.net/}.

The ecmview tool is based on OpenGL, and is targeted at powerful graphics hardware.
Please note that ecmview is a research prototype and not a polished end user product.
It is neither a fully-featured planet viewer nor a performance-optimized terrain renderer.

@node Accessing ECM Databases
@chapter Accessing ECM Databases

To open an ECM database on your disk, use "File -> Open local data set" and
choose its directory.

For ECM databases that are available via the network, use "File -> Open remote data set"
and specify the URL, and optionally a user name and password. Supported
protocols include HTTP and FTP; see the documentation of the libcurl library for more options.

There are currently three categories of databases:
@enumerate
@item Elevation databases. Elevation data defines the geometry.
@item Texture databases. This category is meant for common image data, e.g. orthophotos.
@item SAR amplitude image databases. SAR images are converted to color or gray level
images during rendering.
@end enumerate

Opened databases will appear in the database overview in the lower left corner
of the main window.  You can double click on a database to open its property
dialog. With a right click, you get the option to close a database.

There is one special database named "Texture from elevation". This database is
always open, but not active by default (you can activate it in its property
dialog). This special database will create texture data from the available
elevation data at rendering time. This is useful e.g. to use color ramps for
terrain or to create isolines dynamically.

@node Processing and Combining Databases
@chapter Processing and Combining Databases

The property dialog of a database provides two tabs called "Global parameters" and "Lens parameters".
These tabs provide the same set of options. For now, only the "Global parameters" tab is of interest.
See @ref{Lens} for more information about the "Lens parameters" tab.

In the parameters tab, you can do the following:
@itemize
@item Activate or deactivate a database.@*
Deactivated databases will not be displayed.
@item Set the database priority.@*
Databases with higher priorities will override databases with lower priorities in the rendered image.
Databases with the same priority will be blended according to adjustable blend weights (see next option).
@item Set the database weight.@*
You can adjust how databases with the same priority are blended by giving them
different weights. For example, a database with weight 0.8 will have double
influence on the rendered image compared to a database with weight 0.4.
This is useful for overlay effects. You can for example overlay generated
isolines from the "Texture from elevation" special database over some texture database.
@item Adjust processing options.@*
Different database categories provide different processing options. Processing
is performed on the GPU during rendering. For example, you can scale elevation
data and immediately see the result in the rendered image. Texture data can be
color-adjusted. SAR images can be despeckled, and dynamic range reduction can be
applied.@*
The special database "Texture from elevation" allows you to define color ramps
for elevation data and/or to generate isolines. Note that this texture
generation is applied after the final elevation is composed from the input
databases, so changes in the processing parameters of the input elevation will
immediately also affect the result from the "Texture to elevation" database.
@end itemize

@node Navigating
@chapter Navigating

Use the mouse to navigate. Press one of the mouse buttons while moving the
mouse: a left click rotates the planet, a middle click translates,
and a right click zooms.
The mouse wheel moves the viewer forward/backward along the view direction. 

Holding the Shift key down while navigating slows down all navigation actions,
and holding the Ctrl key down accelerates all actions.

(The navigation currently is not very friendly and needs to be improved.)

@node Lighting
@chapter Lighting

You can apply a simple directional light to your scene by activating Lighting in the GUI.

You have two options to position the light source: global or relative to the viewer.

Simply experiment with the GUI to find out how things work.

@node Lens
@chapter Lens

A lens is a circular area on the reference ellipsoid in which different
databases can have different parameters than on the rest of the ellipsoid.

That's why there is both a "Global parameters" and a "Lens parameters" tab in
the database property dialog.

You can activate and position the lens in the GUI. Once active, you can move
the lens around by holding the Meta key down (on many keyboards, this is the
Windows key) while moving the mouse.  Using the mouse wheel while holding Meta
will change the size of the lens. As in navigation, these actions can be slowed
down by also holding the Shift key down, or accelerated by also holding the
Ctrl key down.

@node Saving and Loading Scene States
@chapter Saving and Loading Scene States

You can save the complete scene state from the File menu and later reload it.
The scene state includes opened databases and their parameters, light and lens
state, and the viewer position and orientation.

@node Render Options
@chapter Render Options

You can display an options dialog via "Dialog->Toggle Options".

@itemize
@item The "Max. quad screen space ratio" and "Quad subdivision level" settings
define the level of detail. See the ECM paper for details.
@item The GPU cache size should be about half of your graphics memory, and the main memory
cache size should be about half of your RAM.
@item Simply experiment with the other options to see what they do.
@end itemize

@node Statistics
@chapter Statistics

You can display a renderer statistics dialog via "Dialog->Toggle Statistics".

This shows the current FPS rate as well as information about the rendered quads.

@bye
